{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18700\viewh19680\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Genesis 22:1-18
\f1\b0 \
Translated by Tyson Freeze\
\
1) And it happened, after these the words. And the gods tested Avraham and said to him, "Avraham". And he said, "Behold me".\
\
2) And he said, please take your son, your only, who you love, Yitsach, and go for yourself to the territory of the Moriah. And offer him there for an ascender on one of the mountains that I say to you.\
\
3) And Avraham rose early in the morning. And he saddled his ass. And he took two of his manservants with him and his son Yitsach. And he split wood of ascending. And he arose and walked to the place that the gods said to him. \
\
4) In the third day, Avraham raised his eyes and saw the place from afar.\
\
5) And Avraham said to his young men, "You sit yourselves down here with the ass, and I and the young man will surely go as far as there. And we will bow down deeply. And we will surely return to you."\
\
6) And Avraham took the wood of ascending and set 
\f2\i it
\f1\i0  on Yitsach, his son. And he took in his hand, the fire and the butcher-knife. And the two of them walked with each other.\
\
7) And Yitsach spoke to Avraham his father. And he said, "my father". And he said, "Behold me, my son". And he said, "Behold the fire and the wood, but where then the lamb for an ascender?\
\
8) And Avraham said, "gods will see to it himself regarding the lamb for an ascender through me." And the two of them walked with each other.\
\
9) And they came to the place that the gods said to him. And Avraham built the altar there. And he prepared the wood. And he tied up Yitsach, his son. And he put him on the altar, from above to the wood. \
\
10) And Avraham stretched forth his hand. And he took the butcher-knife to slaughter his son.\
\
11) And the angel of Jehovah came to him from the heavens. And he said, "Avraham, Avraham". And Avraham said, "Behold me".\
\
12) And he said, "Stretch forth not your hand towards the young man. And do not anything to him. Indeed, now I observe that you are a fearer of gods. And hold not back your only son from me."\
\
13) And Avraham raised his eyes and saw. And behold, a ram behind was held fast in the thicket by its horns. And Avraham went and took the ram and offered it for an ascender instead of his son.\
\
14) And Avraham called the name of that place: \'93Jehovah will see to it\'94, which is called today, "in the mountain of Jehovah it will be seen to\'94.\
\
15) And the angel of Jehovah called to Avraham a second time from the heavens.\
\
16) And he said, "I myself swear \'96 the utterance of Jehovah \'96 because you did this thing and withheld not your son, your only\
\
17) surely blessing, I will bless you; and multiplying, I will multiply your seed like the stars of the heavens and like the sand on the edge of the sea. And your seed will possess the gate of his enemies.\
\
18) And all the nations of the land will bless themselves by your seed, because you hearken by my voice.}